QUESTS:
(This file was last edited for NPPAngband 0.5.3)

There are five different styles of quests in NPPAngband. There are two types of
fixed quests and five types of optional quests.

FIXED QUESTS:

NPPAngband has always had two standard fixed quests:

Kill Sauron at 4950 feet.
Kill Morgoth at 5000 feet.

When one of these quests is completed, a staircase appears to allow a player to
go deeper in the dungeon. A player must kill Sauron at 4950 feet in order to be
able to meet Morgoth. Defeating Morgoth, or completing both quests, wins the
game. These quests are unchanged for every game.

FIXED QUESTS:

While coding support exists in NPPAngband to add additional fixed quests to kill
an assigned number of a given creature at a given depth, there are currently no
fixed quests in the game.  Additional fixed quests could be added by 
altering the quests.txt and limits.txt files.  This would destroy savefile 
compatibility, and would need to be done before starting a new game. 
(Note: Do not attempt this unless you know *exactly* what you are doing.)

OPTIONAL QUESTS:

NPPAngband has a town building called the Adventurer's Guild.
A player may choose to visit this building and receive a quest from the
Guild. Initially, a player can choose only monster quest.  The guild will 
never assign more than one optional quest at any time. Upon completion of an 
optional quest, the guild gives a reward to the player.

At any given time, the status of the player's optional quest can be viewed by
pressing <CTRL-Q>.

The Adventurer's Guild (building # 9 in the town) chooses what kind of quest the
adventurer is given. The guild can assign five different types of quests:

***** <Monster or Unique Quest>
MONSTER QUESTS:
This is the most common quest. The player is assigned to go to a specified
depth, based on the average difficulty of monsters 0-5 levels below the quest 
level, and kill a certain number of monsters (usually around 11 creatures). 
The depth of the quest and number of monsters varies.

Unlike fixed quests, it is not mandatory to complete the quest in order to win
the game.  A player can choose to dive right past the designated quest level, or
leave and return to a quest level. Leaving an optional quest level without
killing the required number of creatures can result in a failed quest.  Failing
a quest greatly tarnishes the player's reputation at the guild.

***** <Guardian Quest>
FIXED MONSTER QUESTS:
Similar to monster quests.  The player is assigned to go to a specified
depth, based on the average difficulty of monsters 4-9 levels below the quest 
level, and kill a certain number of monsters (usually around 15 creatures), or
a single unique. The depth of the quest and number of monsters varies.

Unlike fixed quests, it is not mandatory to complete the quest in order to win
the game.  Unlike a monster quest, a player cannot dive past the designated quest
level until they complete the quest.  Unlike a regular monster quest, you may
leave and return to the level without killing the required number of creatures,
and you will not fail your quest.  The only ways to fail this quest are to 
die trying and to request to abandon the quest at the adventurer's guild.  A
down staircase will appear when you complete this quest.


***** <Vault Quest>
VAULT, or ARTIFACT QUESTS:
This quest is to go to a specified depth, retrieve an artifact and return 
it to the guild, which is being held by a monster inside a small vault on a 
small, or "arena", level. The artifact is special in that it cannot be 
weilded by the player. Returning the artifact to the adventurer's guild 
completes the quest. The difficulty of an artifact quest is dependent on 
the monsters guarding the artifact.  You will most likely need some form 
of tunneling, such as a digging tool or a magic source of stone-to-mud, 
to gain access to the vault.   Voluntarily leaving a level without the quest
artifact results in immediate quest failure.

***** <Pit or Nest Quest>
PIT, or NEST QUESTS:
This quest is to go to a specified depth and kill or destroy every creature
in a monster pit or nest.  A monster pit/nest has 95 creatures of a given theme.
Since there are so many like creatures bunched so closely together, a creature
from inside one of these special pits/nests will not attempt to summon more 
creatures to the battle.  This type of quest tends to be more difficult 
than a monster or unique quest.  It also increases your player fame
by a greater amount than a regular monster quest, and offers more lucrative 
rewards.  Voluntarily leaving a Pit/Nest quest level results in
immediate quest failure.

***** <Level Quest>
THEMED LEVEL QUESTS:
This quest is a more difficult version of the Monster Pit/Nest quests.  Instead 
of 95 creatures in a pit or nest, the entire level is full of 200 or more
monsters of a particular theme.  Since there are so many like creatures bunched 
so closely together, a creature from inside one of these themed levels only summon
other creatures already on the level in battle.  This tends to be one of the more 
difficult type of quest, increases your player fame by a large amount, and 
offers lucrative rewards.  Voluntarily leaving a themed level results in immediate 
quest failure.

***** <Wilderness Quest>
WILDERNESS QUEST:
This quest is a variation of the Themed level quests.  An entire level
of unthemed randomly chosen creatures in a wilderness level.  Since there are so 
many like creatures bunched so closely together, a creature from inside one of 
these themed levels only summon other creatures already on the level in battle.   
This tends to be a difficult type of quest, depending on the difficulty of 
the creatures on the level, increases your player fame by a large amount
(tied with Level Quests), and offers above average rewards and fame increase.
Voluntarily leaving a wilderness level results in immediate quest failure.

***** <Labyrinth Quest>
LABYRINTH QUEST:
This quest is a variation of the Themed level quests.  It is an entire labyrinth 
level of unthemed randomly chosen creatures.  Since there are so many like 
creatures bunched so closely together, a creature from inside one of 
these themed levels only summon other creatures already on the level in battle.   
This tends to be a difficult type of quest, depending on the difficulty of 
the creatures on the level, increases your player fame by a large amount
(tied with Level Quests), and offers above average rewards and fame increase.
Voluntarily leaving a labyrinth level results in immediate quest failure.

***** <Arena Quest>
ARENA QUEST:
The player starts in a small, empty room.  The quest is to kill 40 random 
creatures that appear in the room.  (Note that a group of monsters only
counts as one).  The room will slowly expand, revealing items that will
help the player survive.  This is one of the hardest quests, and therefore
has the gretaest reward and fame potential.  It also has only a small
penalty for quest failure.  Voluntarily leaving an arena level results 
in immediate quest failure.

***** <Greater Vault Quest>
GREATER VAULT QUEST:
The player arrives on a small dungeon level that is a single greater vault.
The goal is to enter the greater vault and survive on the level, and kill as 
many creatures as possible in a limited amount of time.  A timer is displayed 
showing how many player turns (at the current player speed) the player has.  
Once the timer expires, all monsters disappear, including the vault objects 
they are holding,  leaving the player to collect any loot remaining on the 
ground before they leave.  This reward for this quest lies in the objects 
collected from the greater vault.  The guild will offer very little in the 
way of quest rewards, and only a small fame increase.    There is only a 
small penalty for quest failure.  Voluntarily leaving the quest level 
before the timer expires, or allowing the quest time to expire without 
entering the greater  vault, result in immediate quest failure.


REWARD:

The biggest reason to take on an optional quest is the reward.  The quality 
of the rewards offered depends on two factors. The first factor is the difficulty
of the quest.  The second factor is the player's reputation at the guild. 
The player's reputation at the guild is increased by completing quests 
and by killing uniques. When the advanturer fails a quest, their 
reputation at the guild is greatly decreased.

Early in the game, the rewards areusually gold or objects.  As a player's 
reputation increases, the guild will offer to reward the player with permanent
stat increases, dungeon spellbooks, or permanent hp increases.  The ultimate reward 
is for the guild to offer to create an artifact specifically as a quest reward.  
The player will even be given a chance to choose the object to be made into an 
artifact and name it.